README.md, before:

# Mercury Blockchain
A blockchain whose purpose is still TBD... 

## TODOS
- Sync blocks, pending txs when new peer joins the network
- Replace PoW with more efficient consensus (DPoS or something along those lines)

## Getting Started
### Introduction
TODO

### Pre requisites
- install `go`
- install `ipfs` (recommended)

### Installation 

- Install mercury from the source by cloning this repo and run `go install ./cli/...` from the root directory `mercury-blockchain/`.


- Install the latest version using:
```
go get github.com/driemworks/mercury-blockchain/cli/...
```
Note: if you're running linux you may need to set `export GO111MODULE=on;go get github.com/driemworks/mercury-blockchain/cli/...`

## Usage
### CLI commands
`mercury [command] [options]`
- Available Commands:
  - `help`: Help about any command
  - `run`:  Run the mercury node
    -  options:
      - `--name`: (optional) The name of your node - Default: ?
      - `--datadir`: (optional) the directory where local data will be stored - Default: `.mercury`
      - `--ip`: (optional) the ip addreses of the mercury node - Default: `127.0.0.1`
      - `--port`: (optional) the port of the mercury node - Default: `8080`
      - `--miner`: (required) the public key to use (see: output of wallet command)
      - `--bootstrap-ip`: (optional) the ip address of the bootdstrap node - Default: `127.0.0.1`
      - `--bootstrap-port`: (optional) the port of the bootstrap node - Default: `8080`
  - `wallet`: Access the node's wallet
    - `new-address` Generate a new address
        -  options:
            - `--datadir`: (required) the directory where local data will be stored (ex: blockchain transactions)

 example:
  ```
  mkdir .mercury
  # generate a new address
  mercury wallet new-address --datadir=./.mercury
  >  0x27084384033F90d96c3769e1b4fCE0E5ffff720B
  # start a node using the new address as the miner
  mercury run --datadir=./.mercury --name=Theo --miner=0x27084384033F90d96c3769e1b4fCE0E5ffff720B --port=8080 --bootstrap-ip=127.0.0.1 --bootstrap-port=8081
  ```

### UI  (Does not work currently - keeping just in case)
There is a crude ui available to interact with your node. Run an ipfs node with `ipfs daemon` and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080/ipfs/Qmc55mmfkrmTyhRRYsaU9d3sDUBbMPXrtExnrwVbuESEAY/build/`


Note: The ui is available via pinata, however, due to the crudeness of the UI it requires a local ipfs node to be running in order to be functional. https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/Qmc55mmfkrmTyhRRYsaU9d3sDUBbMPXrtExnrwVbuESEAY/build/

### Connect to test network (does not work currently - keeping just in case)
To connect with the test network, use `--bootstrap-ip=ec2-34-207-242-13.compute-1.amazonaws.com` and `bootstrap-port=8080`
`mercury run --name=theo --datadir=.mercury/ --miner=0x990DB19D440124F3d5bA8867b3C35bC0D3c5Eda8 --port=<your port> --bootstrap-ip=ec2-34-207-242-13.compute-1.amazonaws.com --bootstrap-port=8080`

## API
Note: In order to use the API a node must be running.

### RPC
Mercury uses gRPC to let you communicate directly with a node.
Authentication and Security is pending.

#### GetNodeStatus
Query the node for a status report
`rpc GetNodeStatus(NodeInfoRequest) returns (NodeInfoResponse) {}`

example with grpcurl:
```
$ grpcurl -plaintext 127.0.0.1:8081 proto.PublicNode/GetNodeStatus
{
  "address": "0xa7ED5257C26Ca5d8aF05FdE04919ce7d4a959147",
  "name": "tony",
  "hash": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
}
```

#### ListKnownPeers
Retrieve a list of a node's known peers
`rpc ListKnownPeers(ListKnownPeersRequest) returns (stream ListKnownPeersResponse) {}`

#### ListBlocks
List blocks mined by a peer from a given hash onwards.
`rpc ListBlocks(ListBlocksRequest) returns (stream BlockResponse) {}`

#### AddTransaction
The main functionality (to be extended...): Create a new pending transaction that, once mined, will allow us to send generic tx payloads across nodes.
`rpc AddTransaction(AddPendingPublishCIDTransactionRequest) returns (AddPendingPublishCIDTransactionResponse) {}`

Example
```
$ grpcurl -plaintext -d @ 127.0.0.1:8080 proto.PublicNode/AddTransaction <<EOM
{
"cid": "Qm...",
"gateway": "ipfs.io",
"toAddress": "0xa7ED5257C26Ca5d8aF05FdE04919ce7d4a959147",
"name": "file.txt"
}
EOM
```
#### ListPendingTransactions
`rpc ListPendingTransactions(ListPendingTransactionsRequest) returns (stream PendingTransactionResponse) {}`
List all of a node's pending transactions


## Development

The project is composed of the following packages:
#### cli
The `cli` package contains code and configs for the cli, as explained above.

#### core
Contains common structs and functions used across `cli`, `node`, `state`, and `wallet`

#### node
HTTP API

#### state
State management (used by the node). 
- block, transactions, etc

#### wallet
Create and manage your keystore

#### proto
To update server interface, run:
```
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative \
    --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative \
    proto/node.proto
```


### Issues
- TODO: Document any known/in progress issues here

### Testing
- example: $ go test ./node/ -test.v -test.run ^TestValidBlockHash$ 

## Contributing
If you'd like to contribute send me an email at tonyrriemer@gmail.com or message me on discord: driemworks#1849

## Acknowledgements
- This repository's basis is heavily influenced by this repo and the associated ebook https://github.com/web3coach/the-blockchain-bar

Commit message:

create channel and trace, cleanup

README.md, after:

# Mercury Blockchain
Mercury is simple a blockchain built on top of libp2p.

## TODOS
- Enable trace for all topics, read trace when joining topics
- Replace PoW with more efficient consensus algorithm (DPoS or something along those lines)
- determine exactly what the transaction payload should be...
- code cleanup

## Getting Started
### Introduction
TODO

### Pre requisites
- install `go`
- install `ipfs` (recommended)

### Installation 

- Install mercury from the source by cloning this repo and run `go install ./cli/...` from the root directory `mercury-blockchain/`.


- Install the latest version using:
```
go get github.com/driemworks/mercury-blockchain/cli/...
```
Note: if you're running linux you may need to set `export GO111MODULE=on;go get github.com/driemworks/mercury-blockchain/cli/...`

## Usage
### CLI commands
`mercury [command] [options]`
- Available Commands:
  - `help`: Help about any command
  - `run`:  Run the mercury node
    -  options:
      - `--name`: (optional) The name of your node - Default: ?
      - `--datadir`: (optional) the directory where local data will be stored - Default: `.mercury`
      - `--ip`: (optional) the ip addreses of the mercury node - Default: `127.0.0.1`
      - `--port`: (optional) the port of the mercury node - Default: `8080`
      - `--miner`: (required) the public key to use (see: output of wallet command)
      - `--bootstrap-ip`: (optional) the ip address of the bootdstrap node - Default: `127.0.0.1`
      - `--bootstrap-port`: (optional) the port of the bootstrap node - Default: `8080`
  - `wallet`: Access the node's wallet
    - `new-address` Generate a new address
        -  options:
            - `--datadir`: (required) the directory where local data will be stored (ex: blockchain transactions)

 example:
  ```
  mkdir .mercury
  # generate a new address
  mercury wallet new-address --datadir=./.mercury
  >  0x27084384033F90d96c3769e1b4fCE0E5ffff720B
  # start a node using the new address as the miner
  mercury run --datadir=./.mercury --name=Theo --miner=0x27084384033F90d96c3769e1b4fCE0E5ffff720B --port=8080 --bootstrap-ip=127.0.0.1 --bootstrap-port=8081
  ```

### UI  (Does not work currently - keeping just in case)
There is a crude ui available to interact with your node. Run an ipfs node with `ipfs daemon` and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:8080/ipfs/Qmc55mmfkrmTyhRRYsaU9d3sDUBbMPXrtExnrwVbuESEAY/build/`


Note: The ui is available via pinata, however, due to the crudeness of the UI it requires a local ipfs node to be running in order to be functional. https://gateway.pinata.cloud/ipfs/Qmc55mmfkrmTyhRRYsaU9d3sDUBbMPXrtExnrwVbuESEAY/build/

### Connect to test network (does not work currently - keeping just in case)
To connect with the test network, use `--bootstrap-ip=ec2-34-207-242-13.compute-1.amazonaws.com` and `bootstrap-port=8080`
`mercury run --name=theo --datadir=.mercury/ --miner=0x990DB19D440124F3d5bA8867b3C35bC0D3c5Eda8 --port=<your port> --bootstrap-ip=ec2-34-207-242-13.compute-1.amazonaws.com --bootstrap-port=8080`

## API
Note: In order to use the API a node must be running.

### RPC
Mercury uses gRPC to let you communicate directly with a node.
Authentication and Security is pending.

#### GetNodeStatus
Query the node for a status report
`rpc GetNodeStatus(NodeInfoRequest) returns (NodeInfoResponse) {}`

example with grpcurl:
```
$ grpcurl -plaintext 127.0.0.1:8081 proto.PublicNode/GetNodeStatus
{
  "address": "0xa7ED5257C26Ca5d8aF05FdE04919ce7d4a959147",
  "name": "tony",
  "hash": "0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
}
```

#### ListKnownPeers
Retrieve a list of a node's known peers
`rpc ListKnownPeers(ListKnownPeersRequest) returns (stream ListKnownPeersResponse) {}`

#### ListBlocks
List blocks mined by a peer from a given hash onwards.
`rpc ListBlocks(ListBlocksRequest) returns (stream BlockResponse) {}`

#### AddTransaction
The main functionality (to be extended...): Create a new pending transaction that, once mined, will allow us to send generic tx payloads across nodes.
`rpc AddTransaction(AddPendingPublishCIDTransactionRequest) returns (AddPendingPublishCIDTransactionResponse) {}`

Example
```
$ grpcurl -plaintext -d @ 127.0.0.1:8080 proto.PublicNode/AddTransaction <<EOM
{
"cid": "Qm...",
"gateway": "ipfs.io",
"toAddress": "0xa7ED5257C26Ca5d8aF05FdE04919ce7d4a959147",
"name": "file.txt"
}
EOM
```
#### ListPendingTransactions
`rpc ListPendingTransactions(ListPendingTransactionsRequest) returns (stream PendingTransactionResponse) {}`
List all of a node's pending transactions


## Development

The project is composed of the following packages:
#### cli
The `cli` package contains code and configs for the cli, as explained above.

#### core
Contains common structs and functions used across `cli`, `node`, `state`, and `wallet`

#### node
HTTP API

#### state
State management (used by the node). 
- block, transactions, etc

#### wallet
Create and manage your keystore

#### proto
To update server interface, run:
```
protoc --go_out=. --go_opt=paths=source_relative \
    --go-grpc_out=. --go-grpc_opt=paths=source_relative \
    proto/node.proto
```


### Issues
- TODO: Document any known/in progress issues here

### Testing
- example: $ go test ./node/ -test.v -test.run ^TestValidBlockHash$ 

## Contributing
If you'd like to contribute send me an email at tonyrriemer@gmail.com or message me on discord: driemworks#1849

## Acknowledgements
- This repository's basis is heavily influenced by this repo and the associated ebook https://github.com/web3coach/the-blockchain-bar
